# climate-downscaling
Tutorial to use [CSDownscale](https://earth.bsc.es/gitlab/es/csdownscale) applied to HARMONIZE project hotspots

Downscaling allows for transferring climate information from coarse to fine grids. In this way, seasonal predictions, which are usually delivered in coarse grids, can be output refined to improve their value. It is worth noting that downscaling does not necessarily increase the overall skill (quality) of seasonal forecasts. Instead, it provides a more detailed spatial field of climate variables like temperature, precipitation or surface winds. A wide variety of downscaling methods do exist. Some statistical methods have been coded and included in the CSDownscale R package.

- **Interpolation**: Included in Interpolation(). Regrid of a coarse-scale grid into a fine-scale grid, or interpolate model data into a point location. Different interpolation methods, based on different mathematical approaches, can be applied: conservative, nearest neighbour, bilinear or bicubic. Does not rely on any data for training.
- **Interpolation plus bias adjustment**: Included in Intbc(). interpolate model data into a fine-scale grid or point location. Later, a bias adjustment of the interpolated values is performed. Bias adjustment techniques include simple bias correction, calibration or quantile mapping.
- **Interpolation plus linear regression**: Included in Intlr(..., method = 'basic'). Firstly, model data is interpolated into a fine-scale grid or point location. Later, a linear-regression with the interpolated values is fitted using high-res observations as predictands, and then applied with model data to correct the interpolated values.
- **Interpolation with large-scale predictors**: Included in Intlr(..., method = 'large-scale'). Firstly, model data is interpolated into a fine-scale grid or point location. Later, a linear-regression with large-scale predictors from the same model (e.g. teleconnection indices) is fitted using high-res observations as predictands. Finally, the linear-regression is applied with model data to correct the interpolated values.
- **Stencil**: Included in Intlr(..., method = '4nn'). Firstly, model data is interpolated into a fine-scale grid or point location. Later, a linear-regression with the four nearest neighbours is fitted using high-res observations as predictands, and then applied with model data to correct the interpolated values.
- **Analogs**: Included in Analogs(). A Perfect Prognosis (PP) method based on the popular analog technique, which inferes the downscaled forecast from a set of analog situations selected from daily historical observational data. The search of the analogous fields is performed using the Euclidean distance, which estimates the similarity between large-scale forecast fields and their counterparts from historical reanalysis data. This approach is also known outside the climate community as an implementation of the k-nearest neighbours (K-NNs) algorithm (James 2021), considering each grid point as a feature and getting a multioutput.
- **Logistic regression**: Included in LogisticReg(). this method uses a sigmoid function to relate ensemble mean anomalies of the large-scale forecasts directly to probabilities of observing above normal/normal/below normal conditions at the local scale. Therefore, it does not produce an ensemble of forecasts but rather their associated probabilities. It is a statistical method with few parameters to train, and only benefits from local information, but it has shown good performance.
